# DL_WhiteBlood
Deep Learning Applied Project.  

White blood cells (WBC) play a significant role in the _immune system_ by protecting the body from infectious disease and foreign invaders. An ML-assisted identification of WBC from microscopic images is an essential instrument to help **hematologists** diagnose immune-system-related diseases, such as leukemia, AIDS, and certain types of blood cancer. Analysis of WBC structure from microscopic images and classification of cells into types and sub-types is challenging because of the following issues: *i) variations in maturation stages*, *ii) intra-class variation of the cell types due to using distinct acquisition and staining techniques, iii) illumination variations, iv) localization/size change, v) rotation, vi) cell morphology and background, vi) poor image quality*, and *vii) time complexity*.

An automated WBC classification process will be implemented to identify classes and sub-classes of white cells from microscopic images. To perform this image classification, first we will implement an image **pre-processing**, in which an image enhancement by suppressing unwanted distortion, removing noise, and including some geometric transformation (e.g., rotation, scaling, and translation). Following this, a **feature extraction representation** will be applied to extract common features which include: geometrical features, such as, area, radious, perimeter, onvex area, major axis length, compactness, and orientation; textural features, such as momentum, contrast, entropy, and skewness; and color features (i.e. color distribution and histogram). Finally, a **transfer learning** technique with pre-trained models will be executed to perform the classification task. In the literature there are a few pre-trained models proposed as suitable candidates to carry out this challenging application, the present study aims to explore the overall performance of a convolutional neural network (CNN) in identifying distinct white blood cell types - and thus, establish a useful diagnosis tool for professionals, by implementing an automated WBC classification that ultimately might be a diagnosis tool, given its utility in associating physiological anomalies identified by the aforementioned classification technique.
